---
layout: page
title: ManageEngine EventLog Analyzer Multiple Vulnerabilities
id: MSA-2014-01
categories: [advisory]
---

<table>
    <tr>
        <td>Title</td>
        <td>{{page.title}}</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Id</td>
        <td>{{page.id}}</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>CVE</td>
        <td>CVE-2014-7200 (XSS), CVE-2014-7201 (SQLi)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Product</td>
        <td>dmmjobcontrol (Typo3 Extension)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Affected versions</td>
        <td>2.14.0</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Impact</td>
        <td>high</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Remote</td>
        <td>yes</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Product link</td>
        <td>http://typo3.org/extensions/repository/view/dmmjobcontrol</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Reported</td>
        <td>05/09/2014</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>By</td>
        <td>Hans-Martin Muench (Mogwai, IT-Sicherheitsberatung Muench)</td>
    </tr>
</table>


Vendor's Description of the Software:
-------------------------------------
EventLog Analyzer provides the most cost-effective Security Information and
Event Management (SIEM) software on the market. Using this Log Analyzer
software, organizations can automate the entire process of managing terabytes
of machine generated logs by collecting, analyzing, searching, reporting,
and archiving from one central location. This event log analyzer software
helps to mitigate internal threats, conduct log forensics analysis, monitor
privileged users and comply to different compliance regulatory bodies
by intelligently analyzing your logs and instantly generating a variety of
reports like user activity reports, regulatory compliance reports,
historical trend reports, and more.


Business recommendation:
------------------------
During a penetration test, multiple vulnerabilities have been identified
that are based on severe design/implementation flaws in the application.
It is highly recommended not to use this software until a thorough
security review has been performed by security professionals and all
identified issues have been resolved.

CVSS2 Rating (for CVE-2014-7201 - SQL Injection)
-------------

<table>
    <tr>
        <td>CVSS Base Score</td>
        <td>7.8</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Impact Subscore</td>
        <td>6.9</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Exploitability Subscore</td>
        <td>10</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>CVSS v2 Vector</td>
        <td>(AV:N/AC:L/Au:N/C:C/I:N/A:N)</td>
    </tr>
</table>


Vulnerability description
----------------------------
1) Unauthenticated remote code execution  
ME EventLog Analyzer contains a "agentUpload" servlet which is used by Agents
to send log data as zip files to the central server. Files can be uploaded without
authentication and are stored/decompressed in the "data" subdirectory.

As the decompress procedure is handling the file names in the ZIP file in a
insecure way it is possible to store files in the web root of server. This can
be used to upload/execute code with the rights of the application server.

2) Authorization issues  
The EventLog Analyzer web interface does not check if an authenticated has
sufficient permissions to access certain parts of the application. A low privileged
user (for example guest) can therefore access critical sections of the web interface,
by directly calling the corresponding URLs. This can be used to access the database
browser of the application which gives the attacker full access to the database.


Proof of concept:
-------------------
The following PoC Python script can be used to download PHP files from
a attacker controlled host.

```
1) Unauthenticated Blind SQL Injection
The following PoC shows blind based SQL injection on the sector parameter, other
parameters are also vulnerable
http://xxxx/jobs/?tx_dmmjobcontrol_pi1%5Bsearch_submit%5D=Search&tx_dmmjobcontrol_pi1%5Bsearch%5D%5Bsector%5D%5B%5D=3%29and%20benchmark%2820000000%2csha1%281%29%29--%20

2) Reflected Cross Site Scripting (XSS)
http://172.16.37.232/typo3/jobs/?tx_dmmjobcontrol_pi1%5Bsearch_submit%5D=Search&tx_dmmjobcontrol_pi1%5Bsearch%5D%5Bkeyword%5D="><script>alert(1);</script>
```

Disclosure timeline:
--------------------

<table>
    <tr>
        <td>05/09/2014</td>
        <td>Reporting to the Typo3 Security team</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>05/09/2014</td>
        <td>Response from Typo3 Security team that they received the mail</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>24/09/2014</td>
        <td>Mail to Typo3 Security team, asking for the current status</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>25/09/2014</td>
        <td>Response from Typo3 Security Team that they released an advisory[1]</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>25/09/2014</td>
        <td>Release of public advisory</td>
    </tr>
</table>


Workaround (use on your own responsiblity):
----------------------------------------------------------------------
In the file:
typo3conf/ext/dmmjobcontrol/pi1/class.tx_dmmjobcontrol_pi1.php

To fix the Cross Site Scripting (XSS) vulnerability, replace line 112 with the
following PHP code:

```php
$markerArray['###KEYWORD_VALUE###'] = htmlspecialchars($session['search']['keyword'], ENT_QUOTES);
```

To fix the SQL Injection vulnerability, replace line 257 with the following
PHP code:

```php
$whereAdd[] = $table.'.uid_local=tx_dmmjobcontrol_job.uid AND ('.$table.'.uid_foreign='.implode(' OR '.$table.'.uid_foreign=', intval($value)).')';
```

References:
----------------------------------------------------------------------
[1] TYPO3-EXT-SA-2014-012: Several vulnerabilities in extension JobControl (dmmjobcontrol)
http://typo3.org/teams/security/security-bulletins/typo3-extensions/typo3-ext-sa-2014-012

Advisory URL: https://www.mogwaisecurity.de/#lab


Mogwai, IT-Sicherheitsberatung Muench  
Steinhoevelstrasse 2/2  
89075 Ulm (Germany)  

info@mogwaisecurity.de
